Reference: in the recent film girls trip , the character dina , played by tiffany haddish , demonstrated an oral sex technique called `` grapefruiting '' using a grapefruit and a banana as props .<q>this scene has sparked discussions about the technique ’ s realness and has become a viral sensation .<q>grapefruiting was originally popularized in 2014 by viral tutorial videos from auntie angel of angel ’ s erotic solutions .<q>haddish ’ s breakout role in girls trip has also led to her receiving love letters from the film ’ s crew and increased success in comedy shows .<q>additionally , haddish wore an authentic african princess dress to the 2018 oscars , honoring her late father who was from eritrea .<q>she is presenting at her first academy awards and is looking forward to meeting meryl streep and having drinks with whoopi goldberg .
Generated1: google girls trip right now , and you 'll see two major—and extremely different—results : first , and most importantly , are the headlines about the film ’ s success at the box office and what that means for more films led by women of color in hollywood ( all good things , hopefully ) . the second ? the grapefruit method , an oral sex technique demonstrated ( hilariously ) by tiffany haddish—without question the breakout star of girls trip . the grapefruit method is n't a new term or something invented by the film–it was actually first popularized back in 2014 by viral tutorial videos from auntie angel of angel ’ s erotic solutions . ( you can see that here . ) but in a scene-stealing moment of the film , haddish ’ s character , dina , demonstrates for her friends the oral sex act while using a grapefruit and a banana as props . since then , the scene has launched many discussions about whether it ’ s for real . the directions , according to dina , are simple : cut off the top and bottom of a room-temperature grapefruit , then cut a hole in the middle of it . place the grapefruit on your partner ’ s member , and then ... well , twist . you can see a portion of it in the clip below : `` grapefruiting is an act of love , '' haddish explained to entertainment weekly in an interview . `` make it mystical and magical . '' it certainly had an effect on-set : jada pinkett smith told ew that haddish started receiving love letters from the crew after filming . `` that ’ s true , '' haddish confirmed . `` somebody bought me something from jared jewelry . all the guys started coming to my comedy shows . '' there ’ s a special meaning behind tiffany haddish ’ s 2018 oscars look . the `` girls trip '' star told e ! ’ s ryan seacrest on the red carpet that the traditional african gown is a nod to her eritrean heritage , where her late father was from . reflecting on her whirlwind year , haddish shared , `` there have been really awesome , really great times and some bad times . my father passed away this year and he ’ s from eritrea . '' she recalled him telling her , `` 'one day you ’ re going to end up at the oscars and when you go , you have to honor your people . ' so i ’ m wearing an eritrean , authentic princess dress . and i ’ m proud of it . '' [ natl ] best moments from the 2018 oscars standout style moments from oscars 2018 heartwarming dedication aside , haddish is presenting at her very first academy awards . the comedienne said she ’ s most looking forward to `` meeting meryl streep and asking her to be my mama , '' adding , `` i ’ m looking forward to having drinks with whoopi goldberg . i ’ m looking forward to doing the 'nae , nae ' with everybody , and i ’ m definitely looking forward to presenting an oscar . ''
Generated2: there ’ s a special meaning behind tiffany haddish ’ s 2018 oscars look . the `` girls trip '' star told e ! ’ s ryan seacrest on the red carpet that the traditional african gown is a nod to her eritrean heritage , where her late father was from . reflecting on her whirlwind year , haddish shared , `` there have been really awesome , really great times and some bad times . my father passed away this year and he ’ s from eritrea . '' she recalled him telling her , `` 'one day you ’ re going to end up at the oscars and when you go , you have to honor your people . ' so i ’ m wearing an eritrean , authentic princess dress . and i ’ m proud of it . '' [ natl ] best moments from the 2018 oscars standout style moments from oscars 2018 heartwarming dedication aside , haddish is presenting at her very first academy awards . the comedienne said she ’ s most looking forward to `` meeting meryl streep and asking her to be my mama , '' adding , `` i ’ m looking forward to having drinks with whoopi goldberg . i ’ m looking forward to doing the 'nae , nae ' with everybody , and i ’ m definitely looking forward to presenting an oscar . '' . google girls trip right now , and you 'll see two major—and extremely different—results : first , and most importantly , are the headlines about the film ’ s success at the box office and what that means for more films led by women of color in hollywood ( all good things , hopefully ) . the second ? the grapefruit method , an oral sex technique demonstrated ( hilariously ) by tiffany haddish—without question the breakout star of girls trip . the grapefruit method is n't a new term or something invented by the film–it was actually first popularized back in 2014 by viral tutorial videos from auntie angel of angel ’ s erotic solutions . ( you can see that here . ) but in a scene-stealing moment of the film , haddish ’ s character , dina , demonstrates for her friends the oral sex act while using a grapefruit and a banana as props . since then , the scene has launched many discussions about whether it ’ s for real . the directions , according to dina , are simple : cut off the top and bottom of a room-temperature grapefruit , then cut a hole in the middle of it . place the grapefruit on your partner ’ s member , and then ... well , twist . you can see a portion of it in the clip below : `` grapefruiting is an act of love , '' haddish explained to entertainment weekly in an interview . `` make it mystical and magical . '' it certainly had an effect on-set : jada pinkett smith told ew that haddish started receiving love letters from the crew after filming . `` that ’ s true , '' haddish confirmed . `` somebody bought me something from jared jewelry . all the guys started coming to my comedy shows . ''
